Add documentation on how to build rocm-jax and set up the dev env (#101)
ROCm/jax-plugin: BUILDING.md

# Building

The plugin repo produces several different artifacts,
1. JAX plugin Python wheels for ROCm (`jax_rocmX_plugin` and `jax_rocmX_pjrt`)
2. Docker images with an installation of a JAX environment ready to use on ROCm
3. Unit test reports on the plugin wheels

# 1. Building `jax_rocmX_plugin` and `jax_rocmX_pjrt` Wheels

> Run the `build/ci_build` script,

Author: > But can you even run build/ci_build on a random machine that doesn't have clang or ROCm installed? Doesn't it assume a certain prior machine setup?

Yes

All the `build/ci_build` script requires is a machine that has a Python and Docker install that aren't ancient. The actual build, clang install, ROCm install, etc. happen inside of the manylinux docker container. I'll mention this in the docs.

```shell
ls jax_rocm_plugin/wheelhouse
```
If your build was successful, this should output something like,
```shell
jax_rocm7_pjrt-X.X.X-py3-none-manylinux_2_28_x86_64.whl
jax_rocm7_plugin-X.X.X-cp310-cp310-manylinux_2_28_x86_64.whl
jax_rocm7_plugin-X.X.X-cp312-cp312-manylinux_2_28_x86_64.whl
```

To install your wheels alongside `jax` and `jaxlib` in a virtual environment,
```shell
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r build/requirements.txt
pip install \
    jax_rocm_plugin/wheelhouse/jax_rocm7_pjrt-X.X.X-py3-none-manylinux_2_28_x86_64.whl
    jax_rocm_plugin/wheelhouse/jax_rocm7_plugin-X.X.X-cp310-cp310-manylinux_2_28_x86_64.whl
```

## Troubleshooting

If you have an older version of Docker on your system, you might get an error
about BuildKit not being installed or enabled. To fix, run
```shell
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt install docker-buildx
export DOCKER_BUILDKIT=1
```

If pip complains about wheels not being supported on your platform, check
the version of Python in your virtual environment and make sure that your
installing the correct plugin wheel for your Python version. 

# 2. Building Docker Images

> Move the wheels created in section one to a wheelhouse directory, or download

Author: This section is the introduction to the wheelhouse, and I give you the command to create it and populate it with your wheels that were built in section one. I'll re-order the text a bit to make that clearer.

wheels from the [nightly workflow](https://github.com/ROCm/rocm-jax/actions/workflows/nightly.yml)
and place them in the wheelhouse directory. This is where Docker will look for
the wheels when building its images. Be mindful of what version of Python
your Dockerfiles require. As of the writing of this guide, we currently build
images for Ubuntu 22 and Ubuntu 24, which require Python 3.10 and Pyton 3.12

> respectively. The kernels wheel (`jax_rocmX_plugin`) build builds a different

Author: I started calling it the "kernels wheel" because the word "plugin" is overloaded. Sometimes we say "plugin" to mean both wheels together, and sometimes we say "plugin" to mean just the rocm_jax7_plugin wheel. You could also refer to it as the "ROCm Jaxlib" wheel, because that code is built from Jaxlib and the kernels are essentially replacements for jaxlib functions, but we already have a wheel that we call jaxlib.

I don't think it matters if the name leaks internal implementation. Kernels and the code to launch them is what the wheel contains, and I'd bet money on the fact that that detail of the implementation isn't changing. If I was to re-architect the whole thing, I'd probably call the wheel rocm_jax7_kernels or rocm_jax7_jaxlib.

> respectively. The kernels wheel (`jax_rocmX_plugin`) build builds a different

Reviewer: Well, the bigger problem behind my note is the confusion that different naming creates. I'm fine with any naming as long as it is well-defined somewhere and is used consistently.
W.r.t. `plugin` and `pjrt` - if I'm not mistaken, these are precisely the terms that JAX uses itself to describe that code, so unless there are very good reasons, I'd say it's better to follow existing established naming.

> respectively. The kernels wheel (`jax_rocmX_plugin`) build builds a different

Author: JAX is inconsistent. The Python script and Bazel target that builds the `jax_rocm7_plugin` wheel are called `build_gpu_kernels_wheel(.py)`. We likely called our wheel "plugin" because it's similar to Nvidia's `jax_cuda13_plugin` naming.

internally at AMD. You can also filter on the Dockerfile names in `docker/`,
and only build images from select Dockerfiles with the `--filter` option.
```shell
ROCM_VERSION=7.0.0
ROCM_BUILD_JOB=compute-rocm-dkms-no-npi-hipclang
ROCM_BUILD_NUM=16322

python3 build/ci_build \
    --rocm-version $ROCM_VERSION \
    --rocm-build-job $ROCM_BUILD_JOB \
    --rocm-build-num $ROCM_BUILD_NUM \
    build_dockers \
    --filter ubu24
```

## Troubleshooting

If your build fails with complaints about not being able to find a wheel that
satisfies `pip`'s requirements, double-check that you have a `jax_rocmX_plugin`
wheel in your wheelhouse directory that has been built for the version of
Python being installed in your Docker image.

# 3. Running Tests

JAX ROCm plugin tests are usually run in a container via the build script,
```shell
TEST_IMAGE="jax-ubu24.rocm641:latest"
python3 build/ci_build test $TEST_IMAGE --test-cmd "pytest jax_rocm_plugin/tests"
```

We keep unit tests in the `rocm/jax` repository, and you'll need to clone it
to run the regular JAX unit tests with ROCm,
```shell
git clone git@github.com:ROCm/jax.git
cd jax

> git switch rocm-jaxlib-v0.6.0

Author: `git switch` is the new `git checkout`: https://git-scm.com/docs/git-switch

> git clone git@github.com:ROCm/jax.git
> cd jax
> git switch rocm-jaxlib-v0.6.0
> cd ..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
git clone --depth 1 --branch rocm-jaxlib-v0.6.0 git@github.com:ROCm/jax.git
# You can lookup other relevant versions at https://github.com/ROCm/rocm-jax/branches/all?query=rocm-jaxlib
```
